# mod1mediaproject
The goal of the project was to be able to tell a company, in this case Microsoft, that wishes to get into the film-making industry about certain criteria that it takes to be successful in the industry. Our objective was to create several visualizations using data based around public opinion to best suggest to Microsoft what to do, our main question was: "Does public opinion matter when it comes to the success (total gross revenue) of a film?" For our project, it was necessary for us to be able to collect data through the use of web-scraping (using BeautifulSoup) & API calls and it was necessary for us to be able to use Python code to clean our data into a coherent dataframe that we could then use to construct visualizations that showed the correlation between different aspects of a myriad of films. On GitHub, you will find a csv file of our dataframe, a Jupyter Notebook containing all of our code (which includes our data collection, data cleaning, and construction of our graphics), and a link to our presentation of slides of our final suggestions to Microsoft. Although the over-arching question in our data was "how does public opinion relate to the success of a movie", we focused on specifically on the relationships between revenue and public opinion (such as popularity of a movie or the average 10-point rating given to each movie) as well as relationships between the language of a movie and the success of the movie. The data we collected is the revenue of the top 2000 grossing movies of all time; as well as, a dataset of 10,000 movies from TheMovieDataBase.com. We matched the datasets of the top grossing movies and the dataset of all of the movies by movie title.

Our recommendation:
    According to the data we collected, the data that we believe is most useful includes correlation between the popularity of a movie and the viewer opinion; in addition to, the language of a movie. We believe that the less popular a movie is then the more votes there will be about the movie, but they will be negative votes. People do not feel the need to vote on a movie if they enjoyed it, but they do feel the need to "complain" about the shortcomings of it. We can also assume that, even though English is the most common language worldwide, people still enjoy watching "romance" language movies, especially Spanish and Italian. We would also like to give an honorable mention to movies in Indonesian, Chinese and Korean, these movies are for an area (mostly) that is densely populated, so there will be a high viewer turnout. 
    
If we had more time, we would have liked to view the relationship between the release date (specifically the season that the movie opened in) to see if "atmosphere" of a season pertains to success. We would also like to have considered genre and MPAA rating as criteria because we considered that there are certain genres and MPAA ratings that more people can relate to and/or watch.